how to be a great B2B
[Music]
marketer welcome back to a fresh episode
of Breaking B2B Doom I'm your host Sam
Dunning founder over at breaking b2be
and if you haven't yet why not join
thousands of Legends enjoying our
unusual weekday emails for weird B2B
marketing tips SEO Cas studies ideas and
fresh podcast updates head over to
breaking bb.com and hit that newsletter
tab to get stuck in so today I've got
SAA gabbler joining me SAA is the cro
over at
trapet SAA welcome to the show how are
we good it's Friday I'm feeling the
Friday Vibe uh how are you Sam doing
well looking forward to this this
episode I think it's going to be quite a
spicy one I think there's going to be a
lot of actionable tips and hopefully
wake a few marketers and Founders up in
the process and and give them uh give
them a few few bits of inspiration so
we're g be diving into topics like why
being a B2B marketer isn't for the
light-hearted some mistakes that you're
seeing out in the field as you're
previously a CMO Chief marketing officer
and recently appointed cro re Chief
Revenue officer you diveing into things
like the psychology that you should have
as a great marketer why you should push
back and say no more and what we believe
marketers should actually be account for
moving forwards as well as touching on
how not to be replaced by AI so first
things first Sonia why is being a B2B
marketer why is it not for someone who's
who's going to be
light-hearted um because I think B2B in
general is much more complex than b2c uh
if if you can segment that way I think
the market segmenting that way it's it's
a little bit old school um but um I
think in B2B it requires so much more
kind of complexity uh but also higher
than demand obviously as a market here
to enter the B2B space uh it is not
maybe what we see on an everyday basis
as consumers and you can apply those
type of you know uh Frameworks or
thoughts or theories but in B2B I think
there is much more complexity uh in
terms of like knowing the product
knowing your audience knowing where
they're hanging out um and what not so
yeah requires much
more and with that in mind you've
probably seen a lot I'm sure you've
hired your fair amount of marketers
worked with your fair amount of
marketers over the years what are some
of the the biggest mistakes or not
necessarily mistakes but I guess issues
that you see that come up with with
marketers that that we should tackle
head
on um I think I mean there are two
things um one thing is obviously that
some marketers can be a little bit more
supportive as as people so that we tend
not to be as you know in the driver's
seat as I believe that a B2B Market
needs to be so that's one trade to
really consider um if you're going into
a B2B marketing space you need to be
very uh much more in the driver's seat
and that is what a CMO at a B2B
marketing company actually that's the
assignment of what we're talking about
today um and I think the other thing is
once again
um you have to know the business much
more than when you're going into much
more you know Ecom or or more of a fast
Goods um if you're a B2B marketeer you
really need to kind of trickle down to
knowing know kind of the software or the
product much more in depth you need to
understand the sales Cycles you need to
understand you know customer dialogues
and the delivery model of when we
deliver to customers so so that I think
also it's a little bit of a um challenge
that you know um not be be in the Trap
of scratching on the surface so to speak
um when you going into B2B marketing
okay are you tired of competitors
ranking above you on Google stealing
traffic leads and mind share from dream
clients every time they're searching for
your services or offers on Google
breaking B2B we fix that with our
unusual approach to SEO content
marketing and websites we craft B2B SEO
strategies and websites for Revenue not
vanity head over to Breaking bb.com to
check our results pricing or book a CO
with
me let's dive into those so the first
one you mentioned is is perhaps being
too supportive what does that mean
exactly um no so I mean from my
experience so I've coming uh I usually
come in and and my assignments are a lot
about oh we have you know uh this
marketing team and what they do is you
know traditional marketing so a lot of
events a lot of collateral a lot of
production we need to kind of you know
flip the coin and I think that is an
that is a development that we have SE
and we're talking about Revenue
marketing you know uh a lot of the tech
that is enable us to be much more like
close to the business and whatnot and I
think here's like a mind shift like
there's a lot of marketeers that that
are still kind of comfortable in that
supportive area so uh you need to kind
of flip them and and really make them
understand you know um if we don't show
of value that Topline growth and then
we're just going to be considered as a
cost center and that is a very liable U
or risk risky uh position to be in uh
internally in a
company and I can
imagine there's a lot of marketers that
might push back on on that statement I
wouldn't because I've seen a lot of
terrible marketers in my life and on the
flip side I've spoken to some absolutely
fantastic ones and I think as from what
I've seen like as you get into larg and
larger and larger companies and
Enterprises especially in B2B Tech and
software it feels like being more of a
tick boox marketer as to say getting
getting instruct instructions from
management or middle management to
update the slide deck or update the
sales email sequence or mess around with
the podcast St fix the YouTube
thumbnail it's almost as if you're
you're small wheel in a massive Cog or a
massive machine whereas on the flip side
when you're in perhaps a smaller
business or startup obviously a lot more
depends on your actions so what what
would be your response to perhaps those
marketers that are maybe thinking of
themsel not not saying they are but
thinking of themselves as a small Cog in
a big
machine no I mean it's a choice as well
I once again some you can be really good
at your job as a marketeer uh but still
enjoying the fact that you are you know
this small puzzle um bit in a in a
bigger picture um I think that in in
terms of being competitive as a
marketeer I think is super important if
you haven't now as a marketeer if you're
early on your career you really need to
figure out like what what is the reason
for being uh and what type of position
are yourself and what are contributing
when it comes to marketing because I
think the future I mean today and ahead
I always talk about that with my team
that that you need to really um be
competitive and and for that you need to
understand business if you have chosen
to be in a private he company you need
to understand you know what brings in
money what costs money and and
everything um in
between uh so I think uh once again not
to to be like you know saying like you
know if you're more supportive character
or marketeer that's fine that is your
choice I think however if you do want to
uh pursue a career in B2B marketing you
need to step up and be more a driver and
understanding business and and dig into
a little bit more of a complexity on
what actually uh the marketing
discipline contribute to a a company
growth what's your advice for any
marketers the
perhaps some of this is resonating with
and they're thinking that maybe I should
be doing a little bit more or maybe I
feel a little bit stuck in the role that
I'm doing where I'm perhaps I feel like
I'm not contributing but at the same
time I don't have that space to
contribute or I feel like I'm maybe
limited by where I am like what would be
your thoughts there um I mean I mean
from my experience I really learn from
you know doing things on my own and
learning by doing so I think that if if
you are interested in pursuing that you
need to kind of you know uh be curious
be interested go to the sales meetings
listen in to a sales call go to product
and understand and kind of you know have
a goal to kind of demo your product
yourself to to able to know you know the
the features and the tricks and whatnot
so I think it's it's like really finding
the way those ways to kind of learn on
your own and be curious in that I also
think um it is important to kind of have
that support from your manager uh to to
really say that uh you know I want to
have clear goals I want to understand
what my for instance content contributes
so that the manager also is clear on on
how the individual or the whole team
contributing to for hopefully uh some
sort of Top Line growth um but I think
learning by doing I think like I mean
I'm not a classically schooled marketeer
at all I started in kind of more
business development uh implementing
CRM um you know working with developing
digital products and and web as we have
in common as mentioned um uh but I learn
all of that by doing it myself and and
finding ways to kind of explore and I
think that is you know that's the only
way to kind of being a driver IES to to
really learn and be curious
um yeah yeah yeah how I think I think
we're of a similar mindset like pretty
much all the stuff that I think I've got
the either the best learnings from or
the best results long term were almost
doing it off my own back and usually
that comes from frustration
I for for example before I started this
business breaking B2B like I was I was
terrible at selling so I started reading
sales books and listening to sales
podcast and interviewing sales leaders
and likewise then I thought I'd started
a podcast and when I first started the
podcast I was awful I was shaking like
crazy I was so nervous my communication
skills were awful and slowly chipped
away at it and got better but how much
do you think how much do you think lies
within in this case the marketer
themselves to have that kind of get
done attitude I want to I want to make
myself better so I can hit this this
point that I want to get to whether that
is I don't know becoming a marketing
manager maybe then eventually a head of
marketing maybe eventually a VP or CMO
or how much relies on great
management Ah that's such a tough
question uh I mean uh I think I don't
want to do the split because that seems
like super boring but you know I'm a
Swedish I'm Swedish so we're very even
um but but I think um if you are a
driven marketeer you should definitely
not go to a company where you would have
a management that would position
marketing more on the support side
rather than than in the driver's seat um
you can be a super you know driven
individual marketeer and actually
pursuing a much
more you know going to company wear
management maybe not have their eyes on
marketing being an important position as
an important discipline but but if
you're very driven individual obviously
you can you can um uh change that uh for
me instance when I came into trapet this
is two years ago now uh there was a
backlog of marketing for for I would say
like a decade uh one of the founder had
been the marketing uh the marketing uh
you know the CMO but also you know all
the hats all the commercial hats um uh
and and I mean positioning for me
marketing was like okay come SAA uh we
have nothing uh what do you what do you
want to do like H how will we go about
this uh and and that was that a lot of
my trade as a driven marketeer so they
that was like you know
80% and maybe 20% with the management of
the fact that they were very curious and
and also very open to kind of okay we
want to learn we want to understand what
B2B marketing what marketing do for us
today and ahead so so I think in that
case uh then it was a little bit more on
the individual side and a bit less on
the management side but once again it it
so much depends uh and I think it it's
more like whether you are more
supportive marketeer or do you really
want to be in the driver's seat then you
should really opt to find you know good
management good company that
valuates uh or value marketing as more
on the Topline growth rather than on the
bottom line you know cost
um we we're going down a bit of a
tangent or rabbit hole but I do quite
like this because I think this is going
to be useful for B2B marketers now are
there this is this is going off T but if
for example a B2B marketers thinking
tuning in and thinking okay that all
sounds well and good are there any
traits so let's pretend I'm this B2B
marketer and maybe I'm interviewing a
couple SAS OR tech companies that I
think look quite cool and I've got some
potential for growth is there anything I
should be asking in those interviews
that perhaps could lead
to look could lead could be great
questions that I could kind of identify
whether there is room for my growth or
I'm going to have a team of management
that are going to enable me to actually
kind of get to where I want to go but
also contribute actively to the business
whether that is fueling the sales team
fueling revenue or doing stuff that's
going to contribute to the business
growth um I think a question would be
kind of I mean a question that I always
ask when I you know done my due
diligence and change jobs within the
marketing field has been you know um how
do what what does successful marketing
look like um because there you can see
whether they would lean towards you know
understanding uh you know it could be in
the good side we have loads of kpis or I
expect this from from marketing versus
uh we don't really know then you really
know that okay they have no idea uh what
marketing is so I think that is a really
crucial question it's it's uh because
that is also okay what do they what does
you know supposedly what do they expect
from you do they actually have you know
kpi some sort of you know structure and
and some sort of idea on on on what
marketing contributes to kind of the
hard numbers or is it more like ah you
know uh we need somebody that that does
nice sales decks or or we need to you
know have more followers on LinkedIn or
whatnot then then I was said that would
give it away a little bit uh if you if
you ask those questions and then you can
obviously see whether you know is this
going to be a prioritized uh uh um uh
thing or is it more like you know we
want you to be more the pretty marketeer
um I think that is really important but
that also entitles that you yourself can
contribute so I think data skills uh I
always talk about you know to my content
managers uh you have great content but
you need to understand on a hard metrics
level what that content actually does
like okay is it
engaging uh um is it actually pushing
where we want to do in if it's you know
engagement leads or whatnot like that is
something that I always imposes on on on
my marketing team that they understand
uh data and and actually dig down to the
numbers yeah nice advice nice advice and
I suppose I suppose on that flipping
back to that interview format it also
depends on like you say if if you're
asking these questions around what you
expect from marketing and they're giving
wishy-washy answers yeah I suppose it's
it's also pushing back a bit like to see
for example if they're bringing you in
as a marketing leader to which it sounds
a bit like what you've done to to
totally build the marketing unit from
scratch that's a bit different to them
expecting maybe you to come in as a
marketing manager or head of marketing
and perform miracles for a basic wage
and then be thrown a load of tasks at so
I suppose it's
almost understanding expectations and
setting the right footing for yourself
and the company as well
and having no for sure I mean once again
I've had you know situations is like oh
we want to be Market leading brand with
like no money and that you're kind of
like okay but how like no money in a
very short time then I mean that is
obviously totally disqualifying um I
mean that's not even serious then you
know that you would have
a manager that doesn't really understand
you know uh what marketing is all
about um so yeah but I think uh I I
think once again I for me when I
interview or if you are a marketeer that
is pursuing a new job I think it's just
uh important to to get the feeling of
how prioritized is marketing because
it's all about the positioning you know
um uh the current company where I am
there there is a very high and and very
equal position of both kind of you know
sales and marketing but a lot of
companies I think position maybe you
know sales above
marketing and and and and that that can
be fine and you can probably change that
if you're a driven individual but I
think that positioning game is is is to
kind of you know get that
understanding and that will uh help you
to know whether you know you can be in
more in the driver's seat or if they're
looking for more the pretty pretty
Department people office
people what why do you think that is why
do you think so many orgs prioritize
sales folks I it's they're often on a
higher wage they're often more of them
um they're often given more incentives
like you're now in a revenue leadership
position what do you think that
is um no I I think um I mean it's it's
it is a much more exposed uh uh
department and role um I mean on paper
uh it
is that you know it is sales that
bringing in you know the the black on
white the dollars so to speak or the
green
dollars uh so so I think for for that
matter I I think there's always going to
be a little bit more um you know we
can't be equal uh we can be close to
equal sales and marketing but sales will
own a little bit more uh um you know
they will be valued a little bit higher
and
incentivized um I've been in my role now
for two months and already now I'm a
little
bit I want say I'm not shocked but I'm
like oh my God it's such an exposed role
and there's a lot of pressure on on
sales um so I
do like apologize to all the C in the
pth I need to
apologize but but I do understand now
that it is a much more stress for work
and is a much more like higher pressure
uh to to get in that Top Line
um I'm so glad that someone's come on
this show and actually taken a stance
with this because so many people give
such a flimsy answer like
regular listeners or Watchers of the
show know that I'm not really scared to
voice my opinion when it comes to a
marketing strategy or a Sal
standpoint and and that sort of things
I've even done episodes on this show
where I've tested out cold calling to
VPS and CMOS and stuff like that and
reported back as an experiment so yeah
we're all up for that kind of stuff so
I'm glad someone could kind of come in
and kind of throw where where they
actually think think it's at and why
yeah and I think I mean and this is uh I
mean I don't want to go into that rabbit
hole you know sales and marketing
alignment a constant discussion but but
I think uh um and this also has to do
with the positioning uh of marketing in
a company if you have too big of a Delta
on the position between sales and
marketing there's going to be like a
natural conflict around you know the
marketing and you're going to have a lot
of work you know attributing who
contributes to what and what not
so so so already there if you would
notice that there is a delta in the
positioning between the two functions
you would then I would say uh naturally
expect that there is going to be you
know a dis disalignment between sales
and marketing and there will be a lot of
discussions around you know who did this
lead who who ass sourced that sale who's
going to get you know the uh you know
that and whatnot it's go to president's
CL
and right hopefully by this stage we
haven't annoyed too many marketers in a
second we're going to talk about
prioritization and how you can kind of
some of the attributes you need to win
as a marketer just before we do when we
talked about some of the top mistakes
you also mentioned product knowledge and
customer
dialogue how important is product
knowledge do you believe as a
marxer um I think I mean
as a general I think if you are in a B2B
SAS um uh company um and working uh with
you know a little bit more complex uh
B2B s Solutions I think it is crucial
for the marketing team to
understand at least you know the
conceptual work of you know the
products um as a product
marketeer um I mean this is always also
a a product marketeer can obviously be
in the marketing team or it could also
be in the product team
um here it's super important if you have
product marketer in your marketing team
that person is or th that those people
are crucial then to kind of really um
educate the peers within the marketing
in the
product uh and I I think that you
know in order to kind of translate you
know communication marketing content you
need to understand you know what is the
actual
thing yeah so for me so currently now we
have really complex products and we're
really I see that we're really
scratching on the surface and that
doesn't then become relevant to our
audience and I can see that that in our
content kind of production and whatnot
that we are scratching a little bit so
we need to like actually click on the
button ourselves to kind of experience
okay what does this do to me oh I can
actually see I can actually see and I
can experience the value because then I
think that is also mean to
creativity yeah I think it's it's
crucial um I would say um don't be once
again don't be on the surface too much
you dig deeper uh and that is going to
be a long more longlasting
strategy as a B2B marketeer um I believe
I like it I've been something I've been
thinking about a lot is with the so a
lot of our works SEO and content
marketing and with landing pages
articles that we publish to rank on
Google making those really product Le
and making sure that we're featuring the
product heavily but also showing that
aha moment making sure we quickly show
the time to Value yeah um in terms of
from a marketing perspective and
product what do you think the because I
think sometimes marketers aren't always
the best at understanding things like
the problems that their offer solves
that the customer actually cares about
rather than what they think the customer
cares about or the prospect or the dream
client the dream Persona um and again
those kind of jobs to be done that
prospects have yeah those
motivators root causes of the problems
that they might be facing and then the
end features or outputs that they want
to have as a result like are there any
of those that you think are super
important to know around your product or
I'm sure I've missed a few and and any
recommendations on how you should grasp
those um uh I mean I really like the
jobs to be done framework and I think
it's uh it it it applies also in
marketing work so for instance if you're
you know um building a website I think
is a really great framework to to just
build requirements based on okay how we
building the websites let's use jobs to
be done uh Frameworks I think that is a
really good way to really understanding
you know what are the jobs to be done
with our product uh for our potential
then Target group when it comes to kind
of how to do it I think think that you
really need to be in those listening to
those customer conversations be on sales
calls um um be be with the salese when
they're doing the pitch uh because
because immediately just from one call
you can identify as a marketeer oh my
God I missed this I missed that uh you
can get that just from actually just
participating even in a discovery call
even uh it doesn't need to be like you
know first third or demo call but but on
the Discovery call just to see okay how
are they answering uh uh what questions
are they asking um because those are the
questions that we need to answer as
marketeers uh and you know uh in our
content so I
think being actively and and really
close to the sales like just chip in um
I've had Targets on my team uh not this
company but previously like okay I want
you guys to be on a sales go at least
you know twice a month um we also had
the um I also had the Target that you
know um marketeers should be able to
demo our product and actually conduct a
demo um because it brings a lot of value
to the work as a marketer as well and
also that is also going to raise the
position of the whole discipline as I
mean as a marketeer but also the team uh
is going to R if you are knowledgeable
around those things definitely I mean
these these these things you mentioned
are so useful right to to understand the
common questions that prospects are
bringing up on yeah whether it's
prospecting calls Discovery calls
presentation calls demo calls all that
kind of stuff so useful so it's it's
yeah and I think
because what what we are tasked to do as
marketer is like okay we need collateral
we need the
materials uh so that you know sales reps
can go out and conduct their meetings
conduct the conversations um customer
success to to have you know uh customer
dialogs and whatnot and and sometimes if
we're not really in the situation or
have experienced the situation it is a
little bit on the byass line like you
know
yeah
yeah let's be honest as well just to
quickly put some heat on sales because
we've put a lot of heat on Marketing
sales people myself included as I I am
historically a seller as opposed to a
B2B marketer we're terrible at giving
marketing notes or terrible at leaving
notes in the CRM absolutely awful so I'm
going to give marketers a green tick
there they probably don't get the best
Intel from sell so that's why you need
to be involved in the conversation so
you can either pull the recordings or
listen in or take your own notes or
speak to them after for a drink or a
pint or a coffee or whatever you want to
do say no for sure no for sure I mean
the input to marketing is like you know
obviously it's so poor like oh but you
should know so it's like that you know
you should know but you should know as
well like you
know yeah good fun good fun cool so and
we yeah we we've touched on product
knowledge we touched on talking to your
customers involving yourself in sales
schol so I think that's a great
proactive thing because there's so much
you can pull from it it's it's literally
like especially linking that back to the
website like that the Intel that you can
pull from sales and customer success
schs to gear your homepage your landing
page your articles with kind of common
questions common problems goals jobs to
be done is it's really is gold dust and
likewise sales
collateral
so we'll talk about prioritization
but before we do what what do you think
solid B2B marketer should actually be
accountable
for
[Music]
um that is a tough question like
accountable in terms of in the role or
or responsible as what the deliver of
the team yeah it's very high level right
and it it would vary whether you're a
leader and you manage a team or whether
you're part of a team or whether you're
a CMO something like that is there is
there like from a principal level um
some general guidelines that you would
encourage folks let's say let's say
maybe they're earlier on in their
marketing career compared to later stage
no I think uh it is um you need to take
you need to be accountable for fact to
understanding the business that you're
in um I think that is something that
I've seen that you can be super good
marketeer knowing you know your dis
displine U uh whether you're generalist
in marketing or a specialist but if you
do not understand that specific
company's business how they make money H
or what are kind of you know the keys to
success uh that then you're you're
obviously not going to be you know long
lasting in the company especially if
you're in a small company so you really
like the accountability that I that I
expect from my marketing is that they
know the business and that obviously
comes to what we talked about before
knowing the product knowing how we're
selling knowing how how we deliver it
that has to be
accountability um for uh uh for all
marketeers um for any individuals coming
into a company like you need to you need
to learn the company and especially as I
like now we're talking you know B2B
sauce so you know the business model
itself is is you know it's it's
recurring Revenue so not not a lot to
talk about there but like go to market
motion other kind of you know
strategic uh directions uh that you have
you need to be stay really on top of
them and and learn what that that
actually means um H so that you can
also you know tweak your marketing work
that uh to that you know those strategic
uh directions or pillars or what what
what have you in in your
company so that is an accountability I
would say I put on on uh on um my team
and have also in the past um another
thing I think is uh and that maybe not
specifically to marketeers but everybody
that're contributing to in a company is
is that you know don't expect take
accountability for more than just what
you're doing on a daily basis just
making sure um because then work is
going to be much more fun um uh you are
you know you're going to discover new um
uh collaboration um touch points with
with people and peers internally or what
not so that is also something that I
always talk about don't just do your
thing making sure that you know people
have understood so so don't have that
waterfall approach but instead of look
looking from a little bit of a holistic
point of view uh because otherwise you
get that you know who did what and and
and and you know then you have just a
backlog of stuff that is not done
basically do you think marketers should
always have full visibility into the
company in terms of the go to market all
the channels that are running success of
channels
revenue and
more do you mean like U the the full
team that they have the transparency and
visibility exactly I I mean I think so
but I am also very as a person very
transparent um I I believe that that if
you can create a more bigger picture of
VI and kind of you know if you're good
manager you can also actually
um say to your um you know uh your
colleague saying like this is where you
contribute within the the big bigger
picture I believe that if you can be
transparent and and get an understanding
for the bigger picture um then it will
be easier for the marketer to understand
okay how am I contributing into all of
this so I am for uh
transparency um I am very I can I
say early on I I I always you know I I
work a lot with the data element of
things I mean obviously that's a huge
thing for
marketeers uh but if you have a large C
creative team for instance they are
maybe not as exposed to data as as if
you're our performance Market here uh
but I always make sure that everybody
understanding you know the the the
marketing kpis the basic level of things
um um so so I think that that that's
just uh super important and that
requires transparency I would
say yeah because it almost feels like in
order to be as successful as you can as
a marketer if you can get that
visibility into where the company's at
now what goto Market motions they're
running what PID channels they're
running what they're doing organic
content and anything else they're doing
on the outbound sales on the inbound
motion where the websites at if you can
get that visibility then you can know
kind of where you're at now and if you
can know stuff about lead flow mqls sqls
customer churn if you can get visibility
into that then it's it's going to
encourage you I would have thought
anyway certainly from My Lens as a as a
founder and business owner like to to
know where my business at is at and then
to know where we want to get to in the
next quarter half yeah yeah year like
for sure to me it makes sense but
appreciate as companies get larger and
larger they're they're more considerate
of what they want to share with the rest
of the team and
these yeah and one I think also like I
mean there is no kind of you know
isolated Channel and I mean we've been
attributing our our you know there was a
time when that was what we were doing
literally all the time in marketing uh
attribution and
now like the everything is so connected
uh so so so you need to be much more
like okay so if we're doing something
here this will get an effect on here uh
if you're doing a campaign here this
will get effect on all the other things
so I think that picture is important and
once again it's just important to be
really clear on on okay what is our kind
of main target for marketing for me for
me inance I work with um uh sourced
Pipeline and closed um sales from
marketing um source source
sources uh as long as you're clear on
that uh then you know uh you can you you
need to kind of paint the picture um of
of you know how we're contributing to
that end goal which is the you know how
are we driving pipeline through
marketing
and is there like with your so do you do
you have a team that you run I mean I
know you're cero now but you've managed
marketing teams before right and does
marketing report to you now uh yeah they
are they are currently but it's in in
the weight of a of a new um CMO and I
think that's I think that's fair I think
also I mean I I I treasure you know
being I haven't left the CMO role as of
yet even though I'm entering you know
the revenue role but I think is a really
uh good thing and as we can see the
company do have both you know a
marketeer and a revenue officer in the
management team um it is as we talked
about if you're having a revenue officer
with VP marketing reporting to you they
will always be that you know positioning
and kind of you know sales will be then
always above
marketing so I think I really welcome
that Trend and you know to all
marketeers I think that is a really good
um make sure to be in a company that
actually has an an officer in management
because then already there you get the
you know the validation that you know
it's a company that really um uh value
and understand the the contribution of
marketing got it so on a psychological
front are there any things we should
we're flipping this now we're going from
practical to to mindset yeah but for for
perhaps marketers that maybe have worked
more on the brand side or something
completely different maybe I don't know
field marketing or something like that
but maybe they're wanting to shift to
more I do actually actively want to not
to say some of those things can
contribute to pipeline because I'm sure
they can especially with events yeah
maybe I have different views on events
though but we won't dive into that today
so with that said how can how can you
take that mindset shift towards thinking
like I want to really know how the
businesses run and I want to almost be
able to work out backwards from revenue
to presentation to demo call to
Discovery cool to how can we get that
qualified lead in things like that like
what are the what are the things we can
consider cuz I'm sure a lot of marketers
are perhaps tuning in and thinking this
is a lot of quite a lot of information
to take on yeah um could be quite a
stressful thing to for
some um my I always um my my two
advice is uh you know ask the question
why um if
um yeah I I I I I would say that is like
the top so so if you're getting you know
a a request or or you
know you get so much things in your
marketing you get so many things that
you could do and it's all over the place
and I was
like tell my team like it's a mindset
ask them why and if you get you know not
a good valid answer why you as a market
they should do something that connects
to company go goals then you're like
okay I hear what you're saying I just
put it you know in the nice to have
bucket you don't have to say that but
you mentally do that so I think that is
really good advice as why because that
is a mindset also for the individual
like okay am I going to prioritize this
or that okay why am I going to
prioritize this this and then you get
like okay I know this is probably more
contributes more to company targets than
this m that is a really good I use that
a lot in my um how I kind of you know my
my talks to
myself what should I do how should I
prioritize and then the other I mean
obviously my said sometimes you just
have to say no um you can't do
everything and and then goes back to the
prioritization like okay what do you say
no to if you don't have a good answer
why you should do it and how that
contributes to you know company goals
then then you know don't do it and that
might sound a bit
harsh uh and I
can I've heard in the past I I can be a
bit
harsh but it's it's as as a mar like
marketeers we can be busy
247 you know um but but but yeah you
really have to do what uh the Mind shift
have the the mindset has to be like you
need to to do do what actually
contributes to to company's growth or
company what they actually attain to do
yeah yeah is is there a way as a
marketer that we can we can frame that
so for example let's say what I don't
know someone in management or director
levels come come to us and said look we
need to we need to refresh the the deck
for sales or we need to redo the demo
presentation or whatever it is how do we
say like no we've got bigger fish to fry
we've got actual Revenue Targets on our
head and I've actually need to do
something that's going to contribute to
pipeline this quarter like how do we
position that in a way that's going to
go down well um I as it is um yeah I I
think it depends a little bit on the on
the question obviously and also on the
other prioritizations but but yeah one
one ways to say it as is uh currently we
have you know these top three projects
that are prioriti
I would take your your request in in in
when I have time um so I think that's a
way to go the other way to go is bit
more diplomatic around it like I hear
what you're saying I put it on the you
know the you know the incoming
marketing request list uh and and I get
back to
you but that's like I mean once again I
mean that has to do with whether you
know I mean my I've had cosos coming
like oh you know you need to do this you
know sales deck or whatever like
sometimes you just have to do things and
and be very tactic about it um uh but
but I always like just be very Mindful
and at least conscious on what you're
spending your time on um and and once
again it is easy to do update the
presentation like it's not as easy to
you know write a good content piece so
it's also pushing individuals to not
take the easy way but do the hard
work I like the the linking it back to
perhaps agreed goals like uh we agreed
that x y and Zed was our main priority
this quarter that's what I'm focused on
like do you want me to put that on the
back burner to update a deck and then
I'm sure that leadership say oh no no no
like carry on with with what you're
doing or something like that yeah yeah
and I think I mean it's just uh it's in
business like I mean you're doing sales
anding there's always going to be you
know alternative cost like you can't we
are just human we can't do everything
and I think especially marketing you can
literally do
Powerpoints like I mean we all talk
about like when does the death of power
like it would it would never die it
feels like but you can literally fill
you know 90% of a marketer's time with
slides and and updating
slides yeah it's like me messing around
on LinkedIn instead of doing real work I
spend all my day on there if I wased
time enough yeah
yeah but that's another tip like uh you
know you can time box the amount of time
you have for a task because then you
will be more efficient doing it so it's
like okay I can do 30 minutes and update
your slide deic that's all I have yeah
well it's it's that thing isn't it
however much time you give yourself
however time you block out is the time
that will take whatever you tell
yourself it's going to take it's going
to
take you make it work around that
alternatively you read uh you read Chris
fosses never split the difference and
when someone asks you to do update the
slide deck you repeat it you say update
the slide deck and then they then they
start convincing themselves why it's a
bad idea so you just reverse psychology
on them reverse yeah yeah sure such a
great book or you go how am I supposed
to do that with all these tasks you've
given me
brilliant book brilliant book for
communication I think any marketer
should read that definitely a seller but
any marketer should read that just just
very very communication but sure on that
I think it's a good time to to wrap
things up so really appreciate all your
wisdom and there's been a lot of
tactical advice for B2B marketers and
aspiring marketers business owners are
like tuning in so really appreciate is
there any resources that you recommend
Sonia that folks should tune in into on
this topic or read or check
out um
well good I listen to a lot of podcasts
um I think yeah sounds your podcast uh
is a good uh good entertaining and then
obviously um very insightful um I can't
I I have listened to one podcast but it
it that that show kind of uh is not in
anymore but I it's called the marketing
book podcast I think that's a really
great uh uh pod because yeah it's both
sales and it addressing sales and
marketing and then yeah never split the
difference obviously great book um one
book that has not may be towards
marketeers and sales that much but more
like how you conduct your work is
obviously C newport's uh deep work I
think that coming back to that I think
around you know solving real hard
problems requires you know obviously
something else than doing everything you
know the Redundant everyday easy tasks
so
that's lovely good stuff and if anyone
tuning in wants to connect with you or
learn more about yourself or the
business what's the the best way to do
so no just uh reach out I'm on LinkedIn
um uh and and yeah that is the best way
to to find me so shoot me a uh shoot me
a connection or or DM me if if um yeah
any any
questions excellent and we'll put those
links just below want to thank you once
again really enjoyed the chat thanks Sam
really enjoyed it as well and happy
Friday to you yeah likewise hope you
have a good one and thanks very much for
for the audience to to listening or
watching today and if you want to join
thousands of Legends enjoying the
weekday newsletter then head over to
Breaking
bb.com what unusual B2B marketing ideas
insights and podcast updates we shall
catch you on the next one cheers for
tuning in
[Music]